# SAGA-mediated-chromatin-acetylation
Distinct requirements of linker DNA and transcriptional activators in promoting SAGA-mediated nucleosome acetylation
The Spt-Ada-Gcn5 acetyltransferase (SAGA) family of tran- scriptional coactivators are prototypical nucleosome acetyl- transferase complexes that regulate multiple steps in gene tran- scription. The size and complexity of both the SAGA enzyme and the chromatin substrate provide numerous opportunities for regulating the acetylation process. To better probe this reg- ulation, here we developed a bead-based nucleosome acetyla- tion assay to characterize the binding interactions and kinetics of acetylation with different nucleosomal substrates and the full SAGA complex purified from budding yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). We found that SAGA-mediated nucleosome acety- lation is stimulated up to 9-fold by DNA flanking the nucleo- some, both by facilitating the binding of SAGA and by acceler- ating acetylation turnover. This stimulation required that flanking DNA is present on both sides of the nucleosome and that one side is >15 bp long. The Gal4–VP16 transcriptional activator fusion protein could also augment nucleosome acety- lation up to 5-fold. However, contrary to our expectations, this stimulation did not appear to occur by stabilizing the binding of SAGA toward nucleosomes containing an activator-binding site. Instead, increased acetylation turnover by SAGA stimu- lated nucleosome acetylation. These results suggest that the Gal4–VP16 transcriptional activator directly stimulates acety- lation via a dual interaction with both flanking DNA and SAGA. Altogether, these findings uncover several critical mechanisms of SAGA regulation by chromatin substrates.
